Okay, I'm going to troubleshoot something
here from one of my students. He's
complaining or saying not complaining.
He's saying that the H2 database is
hanging after an insert. So I cloned his
or forked to his GitHub repo and got a
project opened up in IntelliJ. And I have
not looked at this at all yet. So we're
going to go through it. Go through this
live. I'm just going to take a look and
see what we have here. And so we are
running...
Okay, so we're running into Spring Boot 2.
So it's some of the latest stuff here.
I'm just going through seeing what
we have in the dependencies. So nothing
earth-shattering there.
Everything looks pretty straightforward.
Yeah so we got the H2 database there.
I am going to run this and see if
we can duplicate what he's seeing.
So we're starting up there in Hibernate or
Hibernate Spring Boot. Tomcat got this up on
8080. I'm going to toggle over to Chrome. I
believe it was a change at customer. So
he's following along with my data set. So
I'm a big Burn Notice fan. So let's edit
this. Okay, we do look like we've hung up
there. And he also told me that on the H2
database, you could see the changes. So
let's do that. Got to take a quick look
at the H2 database.
Okay so my quick update did not go
through yet. So the change I made to
Michael Westen, his name is not persisted.
Yeah it looks like we are okay so we did
timeout. Unable to acquire a JDBC
connection. So let's take a closer look
to see what's going on here. I'm going to
refresh that. So our update
definitely did not go through. What he is
getting data, the database is working.
Okay, so it got the active profile of
jpadao. Take a look at services. Look at
the CustomerServiceJpaDaoImpl. So
this will get invoked with that profile.
Everything looks pretty accurate. I don't
see anything jumping out at me. So I'm
going to set a breakpoint here. This
should be the safer update action that
he's getting to. And I am going to stop
this and rerun it in the debugger.
Oddly, the stop has taken a while to
kill that process. Let's bring
it up in the debug. That's out to see it,
that a pausing like that. So that
works. That's interesting. The
bootstrap is working. So everything
went through okay there. So let's try this
again.
Okay, he's in there. We have an energy
matter factory that looks okay. So we'll
just step over that. Get the transaction.
Commit. Returns it. That all looks okay.
That time, it worked. That is... I'd see it
working in the debugger. So let's try
going back. Refresh this. I'll make sure
that it did in fact persist. So reconnect.
So my update did happen. I added the
22 there. Let's change that again.
Sit back in the debugger. I'm just going to
go ahead and set play. And now, we're
seeing the same problem again.
So we got a timeout there. When we're
trying to get the commit transaction, and
that looks like pretty standard stuff
there. I'm going to pause this and reset.
Research it real quick. Okay, did a little
research there and looked into this a
little bit closer. I think I figured
out what is going on here. So we have I'm
a little bit rusty at this because I
almost never use EntityManager anymore.
But we have the em and what we are not
doing is we're not closing that
connection. So I believe what was
happening is that, we were running out of
database connection. So under the covers,
Spring Boot is going to be using a pool
of database connections. And we got up
and got okay and we're not explicitly
closing that connection so they're
staying open and we're essentially
running out of database connection. So
I put in on line 45 here to close out
our EntityManager to explicitly close
it and this is why we like to use
frameworks for this stuff because you
get into the raw stuff a little close
and personal. It's easy to forget
stuff like this and cause leaks like
that, where you're not properly releasing
the database connection. So I'm going to
bring this back up. Let's take a look
at it. Know what's the bad there. So
let's go ahead and edit Mr. Weston. Add a 2. Can see that went through right away. Let's
go back to customers. We'll edit him
again.
And now we are running into the same
problem. So I tested this before resuming
and it worked. And now we are not working
again. So I am going to pause this and
look at it a little bit closer. I thought
that was the solution.
Okay, did a little more research there
and looked at this closer. And what was
happening, I believe, as I went in and
added close statements to the others, so
we were leaving that EntityManager open
and it's consuming all the connections
in our database pool. That's why it's
timing out. While I took care of the
one doing the update, we had the others
on the list and get functions as well
that we're also leaving open connections.
So we had go in and close those. Now I'm
going to toggle back over. I have up and
running with these close statements and
and I can come in at Mr. Weston. I'll
just make a couple changes to him.
Let's go back here. Let's edit Fiona.
So that that's working now. We can
see that I'm able to to refresh and
everything's working normally. If I come
in and continue doing edits, we can see
that we're not exhausting the connection
pool anymore. So I believe it was going
in and adding in these close statements
to release the database connection. So
we're basically, I can't remember the
exact default, I think it's around 20, 20
or 25 connections in that pool. And as
we're running through this, the EntityManager wasn't getting released and
those connections are still being left
in use. So when we hit that 20 or 25 mark
of open connections to the database, the
next one when we're doing that update
couldn't get a connection. And basically
what happens is in the pulling situation
we're going to be going - hey give me a
database connection from the pool and it
waits I think the default was three
seconds, and it's like Oh can't get one,
and then it tosses in an error. So this is just a leak in the database connections.
This is why I prefer using something
like Spring Data JPA over doing this. I do
teach it in my older courses and I'm
probably going to add it into my Spring 5
course because there is a lot of
legacy stuff where you're down close to
the database connection. So this is
important stuff to use. But when you
are using something like Spring Data JPA,
all this is abstracted by the Spring
Framework for you. So you don't get that
net cozy. So you have tool set is going
to be managing the connections for you.
You don't have to worry about
releasing him like you do here. And
obviously, this is a situation where you
could pretty easily shoot yourself in
the foot by forgetting to close
connection. I've seen this in
production systems where you do
introduce code and you forget to release
a connection and it definitely does
caused you some headaches. So I am going
to go ahead and commit this into GitHub
so my student can get the example and
move along. So I think that's a pretty
interesting problem. I didn't
know I was getting into when we opened
up this project, but everything looks
pretty good. Except for not having these
close statements. I need to review my
my tutorial make sure that I do infact
put the closed statements in there.